rno2roff

This is a filter to convert RSTS/E DSR RNO (Digital Standard
Runoff) files into Unix nroff/troff files. Some VAX RNO commands
are also covered.

There are many differences between RNO and roff, so the final
results may vary wildly, but it should be good enough to get a
reasonable result.

It does not completely cover all the runoff commands, and some
of it just doesn't work right, but it is sufficient for what I
was playing with at the time. You can also produce Postscript
output for a fancier document. Those commands that are not
handled are left in the .roff output as comments.

Commands require some whitespace between the commands and its
parameters. ".s1" won't work, but ".s 1" will.

RSTS RNO defaults to ".UPPER CASE", but VAX RNO wants the default
to be ".LOWER CASE". Add a ".LOWER CASE", or ".LS" at the top of
the document if you need to force this.

Note: This filter is in early development.
It probably isn't very useful at the moment.
It is probably only useful under Unix/Linux due to
it's filter design.

Usage:

	rno2roff < source > dest.roff
	groff -mm dest.roff > dest.ps
	nroff -mm dest.rod > dest.txt

	Run the commands twice if you have indexes or a table of contents.

Currently, no options exist.

Modifications to output .roff file

	Add this line at the front of the .roff file to enable hyphenation.
		.nr Hy 1

	If you want to use troff/groff instead  of nroff, then the line
	widths are probably going to be too wide. It is based on 12 point
	font size instead of the 8 point that text uses. You can change
	to an 8 point font bi assind
		.S 8
	at the front of the .nr file, but the font is rather small.
	The other option is to adjust all of the ".po, .ll, .ti"
	values in the .nr file by adjusting them by "*8/12". But only
	if you wanr troff only instead of nroff.


Compile:
	 c++ -g -o rno2roff rno2roff.cc 

	or

	cmake .; make

Requirements:
	Under Debian, you need to install the groff package.
	There is usually a partial install to handle man pages,
	but it is missing the 'ma' macros.

Author

	Kevin Handy, March 2016
